Our signup form is ready, but we have some components that can be reused in different parts of our
application and let's extract those as a separate components.
For instance, this alert dev here can be extracted as a separate component.
And also the button we have here is not just specific to the signup case, we can use it in other places
in the application.
So let's create them as a separate component and let's start with this load case.
So opening a terminal for this one, I'm going to use the angular CLI for creating the component and
let's do that.
This is the source directory of the of the project and I run g generate and we are going to create a
component and I'm going to gather these components under a folder shared.
So when giving a name to the component, we can also pass the pet in it.
So like under shared the component will be let's say this is the alert.
And for this one, we don't need any test files to be generated.
So adding skip tests.
As true so the tests won't be created.
And also we don't need an extra CSS file to be generated.
So we go with inline style through option here.
There's a typo in line style.
So it just generated the alert component, the HTML and alert components, and it updated the app module.
So let's check the shared folder and we have the load component.
H html and test files.
I'm just cutting this part from the sign up.
Just cutting this part and pasting here and saving this one.
Now the components is this one EP alert and.
And Degenerate is automatically adding it to the app module right here in the declaration.
This alert component is added.
So in sign up we can use app alert.
So saving these changes.
But this is breaking our test because now we have a new component.
We are using this new component in the in the signup.
We declared that one in the module, but it's not declared in the test modules.
So here in the sign up component spec.
Here in the the before each the test bed is having only the declarations of the sign up component,
but now we have the third component.
So let's make sure we have the alert component here as well.
Now the tests are passing, but we also have the same failure in the gist test.
Just like we declare alert component in the karma test.
We need to do the same thing in just test as well.
Right here in the setup.
All tests are calling the setup.
So like we have imports for the typical end module and we will have the declaration declarations array.
And in this one we get the alert component, saving it.
And the justices are also passing now to make this component reusable.
At the moment, it's just having this text, but the text will be dynamic.
So to use it in different components, we can set text dynamically and for that we need to do something
like this, for instance, in sign up component instead of just having this app alert.
We can.
Just copying the text we want for this Lord, like we can set a property for it.
And let's say the property name is the text and the text will be this one.
So we will be able to set the text for it dynamically in wherever we are using this component.
So.
This component will be taking this text input.
So just opening the alert component and we need to declare this input.
So the input is coming from this angular core package and the input name is the text.
By the way, it's going to be like this.
Text.
And initially it's going to be, let's say, empty.
We can set initial values to it.
And right here in the alert template.
Now, we can replace this one with Codebases.
Text just like this.
Saving all the changes.
And if you open the karma, we see the tests are passing.
So whatever value we are setting for the test property is added as a child to this relative and it is
visible on the page.
For this one, another approach would be instead of setting a property, we can pass the text as a child
element.
So just like having like we had the div and we had the text here.
So this is the child element and we can do the same thing for our custom elements as well.
So like here, just cutting the text and.
Adding it as a child element here.
Now we can use this one.
So at this point, if I save it, it's going to be failing.
Like the tests are failing because this component is not processing the child element.
We are passing through it to be able to use this child element in this component, all we need to do
is just like we no longer need to have this text property, but we will have energy content here.
So this is a place holder for the representation of the child elements passed to this component.
So let's save this one.
Now the tests are passing.
So this value we are passing as a child element is inserted into this content.
Now we don't need the text input and removing unused import.
Now we extracted this pilot as a separate component and we can re-use in other places.
This will have different styles, so we will enhance the functionality of this one.
But from use using point of view from signup page, we will not be dealing about the internals of it.
So from sign up page point of view, we won't be dealing with the details about the implementation,
details about the third component.
We will just pass the relevant data to it.
Now, let's also extract this button as a separate component.
Again, opening the terminal, creating another component and g generate.
By the way, we can go shorter like this in G.
G is also representing the generate and we are going to create component.
And again, this one is going to be under shared folder and the company will be button and we will skip
tests for this one and also we will go with the inline style for this one as well.
So it is creating potent compound animal button components and adding the declaration of the button
component into this app module.
Now just copying this button markup.
And going to button component is HTML pasting here.
Now this one requires more properties like we need to update the disabled.
We also need this API progress and we have this text.
So let's define these inputs in the component.
So opening the bottom component.
Yes.
So we will have an input for let's say this is for the disabled and initially it's going to be false.
So this is going to be disabled.
And the next one is API progress.
So just like disabled it's going to be.
The Boolean API progress and its initially false.
So we got these inputs.
And again, we will have.
Energy content here.
So we will pass the text as child element for this.
Tap button.
So that's it.
Now we will be using this component in sign up component.
So our component is app button and the the text will be this one sign up.
And it looks for the properties of for the disabled and the disabled is this one.
And.
DPI progress.
And it's the API progress property in this sign up component.
Now, we don't need this.
And saving this one.
The tests are failing because the button is not declared in the test modules.
So we will declare it.
Button component, saving it.
Now the tests are pressing and we also need to declare this one in the gest test.
So we will have a button component saving it.
And here in the just output we see all tests are passing.
So with this way we extracted the parts as separate components and all we do is just pass the properties
that components is requiring.
And in the component implementation, it does the all necessary things like showing the spinner disabling
itself based on the disabled property or API progress and so on.
So with this way, the sign up won't be dealing with the buttons behavior, so the buttons will be more
generic in the application.
And if we check the angular.
They have tools in the chrome.
Here we have the app.
Sign up in it, we have this app button.
So this is just listing all of our custom components.
So like we have the app button and here we see it has the properties of the API progress and disabled.
And if we set values for them like this, if the API progress is true, then there is spinner.
And even we said disabled to false.
Since the API progress is true, button is disabled and the spinner is visible.
So like this way we can create reusable components for our application.